---
title: "Advent of Code 2019 - Day 13"
date: 2019-12-29T23:44:56-05:00
draft: false
---

# Advent of Code 2019 - Day 13

_Find my full solution repo [here](https://github.com/mattcdrake/aoc19-python)._

Day 13's puzzle wasn't so bad, although I spent a long time debugging something
__really__ silly. I also made things much more complicated than they needed to
be when determining how to move the joystick.

## Breakout!

The data structure for this puzzle is similar to the one I used on the
[Space Police](https://adventofcode.com/2019/day/11) puzzle - a 2d grid with
inverted y-axis.

The main loop is simple. Draw the screen and then count the blocks. Bam.

```py
while output[1] != "halt":
    x = computer.compute([])[0]
    y = computer.compute([])[0]
    check_bounds(screen, x, y)
    output = computer.compute([])
    place_tile(screen, x, y, output[0])

print("part 1: " + str(count_tiles(screen, 2)))
```

`check_bounds(screen, x, y)` will grow the boundaries of the screen if
necessary. This allows for arbitrary screen sizes.

## Like Everyone Else, I Overcomplicated AI

For part 2, you really just have to keep the score output and move the paddle.
I made "move the paddle" way more complicated than it needed to be for 45
minutes or so. I was tracking the vector that the ball was travelling in and
trying to move the paddle to the point where the ball-path would intersect with
the paddle's horizontal plane.

Of course, you can just move the paddle to always be under the ball... I
eventually realized this and had a solid facepalm moment.

Lastly, I mentioned that I had a __really silly bug__. 

I first wrote a function to find the ball:

```py
def find_ball(screen):
    x = -1
    y = -1
    for index_y, row in enumerate(screen):
        for index_x, col in enumerate(row):
            if col == 4:
                x = index_x
                y = index_y
    return (x, y)
```

Then I thought, this would also be useful for finding the paddle, so I 
refactored:

```py
def find_tile(screen, tile):
    x = -1
    y = -1
    for index_y, row in enumerate(screen):
        for index_x, col in enumerate(row):
            if col == 4:
                x = index_x
                y = index_y
    return (x, y)
```

But the paddle was always showing up as the same position as the ball, even when
that was obviously not the case. Do you see the bug?

I forgot to change the constant '4' to use the 'tile' parameter. Whoops!

All in all, I thought this was a great puzzle and next time I have to pay closer
attention to my refactors.

_Find my full solution repo [here](https://github.com/mattcdrake/aoc19-python)._
