---
title: "Advent of Code 2019 - Day 9"
date: 2019-12-24T00:08:07-05:00
draft: false
---

# Advent of Code 2019 - Day 9

_Find my full solution repo [here](https://github.com/mattcdrake/aoc19-python)_

Debugging this puzzle was a complete nightmare for me. As is the case with most
debugging stories, it was completely my fault all along.

## The Problem

First, a while back, I thought that the instructions said "a parameter that you
write to will _always_ be in immediate mode." The instructions actually say the
exact opposite of that. So, when processing the parameter modes, I would
hardcode the parameter mode to "immediate" for arguments that were supposed to
be written to. This had some terrible side effects.

The __most bad__ side effect was that this mistake actually led me to __get__ 
__the right answer__, because I was handling the writing section of the opcode 
wrong.

For example, my argument parsing code looked like this:

```
if immediate mode:
    return program[pc + offset]
else:
    return program[program[pc + offset]]
```

My write code: `program[arg] = value`

And my "read" code just said `print(arg)` since the argument parsing code was
supposed to get the right value.

And since I hardcoded "write" parameters to be immediate mode, I was 
inadvertently doubling up the address calls and getting the right answer in the
process.

## The Solution

I eventually read every word of the instructions and realized that I had it
backwards. The main thing to come out of this issue was that I added a
`write_arg()` method instead of trying to have a single method do both. The two
functions now look like this (with the included relative base):

```py
    def get_arg(self, mode, pc_offset):
        if mode == 0:
            location = self.program[self.pc+pc_offset]
        elif mode == 1:
            location = self.pc+pc_offset
        elif mode == 2:
            location = self.program[self.pc+pc_offset] + self.relative_base
        return self.program.setdefault(location, 0)

    def write_arg(self, mode, pc_offset, value):
        if mode == 0:
            location = self.program[self.pc+pc_offset]
        elif mode == 2:
            location = self.program[self.pc+pc_offset] + self.relative_base
        self.program[location] = value
```

It's also worth noting that I'm now using a dictionary implementation of
memory instead of a list due to the extended memory requirement. With this big
misstep out of the way, the rest of the puzzle came along quickly. I'm simply
tracking the relative base at the instance level and opcode 9 adjusts it as
necessary. The code above shows how the relative base affects reading/writing
parameters.

## The Takeaway

Time and time again, I learn the same lesson when debugging programming issues.
That lesson is best described by a quote from Moira, a character in Overwatch:

"When faced with a setback, we must challenge our assumptions."

Duly noted.

_Find my full solution repo [here](https://github.com/mattcdrake/aoc19-python)_