---
title: "Advent of Code 2019 - Day 2"
date: 2019-12-03T22:13:15-05:00
draft: false
---

# Advent of Code 2019 - Day 2

## Intro

This puzzle was a clever way of introducing the idea of opcodes, 
loading/storing values, and assembly in general to someone that may not have 
been exposed to it before. I watched a 
[talk by the creator of Advent of Code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gibVyxpi-qA) 
this weekend and he made a point that he has to design these puzzles for
someone that may never have taken a CS class before. I could really see the
result of that care and foresight in this puzzle.

You can find my solution repo [here](https://github.com/mattcdrake/aoc19-go)

## Solution

I start by parsing the input into a slice of strings, converting it to a slice
of ints, and then returning that slice.

```go
// Reads input file, splits into a string slice, converts those elements to an
// int slice and returns it.
func prepInputD2() []int {
	f, err := os.Open("./input/day2.txt")
	check(err)
	scanner := bufio.NewScanner(f)
	// Assumption: all input data is on a single comma-separated line
	scanner.Scan()
	input := scanner.Text()
	inputSlice := strings.Split(input, ",")
	numSlice := make([]int, len(inputSlice))

	for i, val := range inputSlice {
		val, err := strconv.Atoi(val)
		check(err)
		numSlice[i] = val
	}

	return numSlice
}
```

From there, I made the modifications to the input inside of my call to
`day2Puzzle1` before passing that slice to my `compute` function. The
computation process isn't that interesting, but you can find it in the
[repo](https://github.com/mattcdrake/aoc19-go) if you want to check it out.

The second puzzle involves iterating through the possible nouns and verbs to
find the pair that creates the desired solution. There is probably a more 
elegant way to solve this, but brute forcing it here seems to work just fine.

```go
func day2Puzzle2(intcodes []int) int {
	tempcopy := make([]int, len(intcodes))
	for noun := 0; noun < 100; noun++ {
		for verb := 0; verb < 100; verb++ {
			copy(tempcopy, intcodes)
			tempcopy[1] = noun
			tempcopy[2] = verb
			result := compute(tempcopy)
			if result == 19690720 {
				return 100*noun + verb
			}
		}
	}
	return -1
}
```

When it came to the second part of the puzzle, this is where I learned (after
some confusion) that Go doesn't "pass by value" - although I'm not sure how to
say that concept in Go-language (ha) yet. I had a test case that called
`prepInputD2()` and passed that into `day2Puzzle2` - it would pass while the
actual function call would fail. After a few moments of chin-stroking, I
realized that I hadn't been refreshing the input data after calling 
`day2Puzzle1`, so the pre-compute modifications that you have to make were
getting made for the call to part 2's solution. This was screwing everything
up!

Eventually, I figured it out and I learned more about Go - so it was definitely
a success. For the record, I'm really enjoying the language so far. There are
some things that are a little weird (only `for` loops) and some things that
are a little bit like [bumper bowling](http://www.usbowling.com/bumper-gutter-system.html)
(I can't compile with an unused import?)...but overall I'm finding it to be
nice and refreshing.

Looking forward to day 3 (which I will be a day late on).

You can find my solution repo [here](https://github.com/mattcdrake/aoc19-go).
 
