---
title: "Aoc20_2"
date: 2020-12-02T01:51:56-05:00
draft: false
---

# Advent of Code 2020 - Day 2

Check out the [code](https://github.com/mattcdrake/aoc20-py)

## Intro

This one requires some string searching to find out if a given character appears in the correct position.

## Day 2

My plan here was to break the raw string into semantic parts (lower bound,
target character, password) and then utilize helper functions to do the
requirement validation.

The outer loop works through each item in the list and splits it into the
proper parts. Then it calls the right function and updates the running total if
necessary.

The two functions below do most of the work. `count_chars()` does what it
sounds like, and the main outer loop then compares that count to the
boundaries, updating the total if necessary.

`is_valid_password()` determines whether a given string meets the requirement
to have a specific character in one (and only one) of two positions. I'm using
an exclusive-or for this, but I admit that it doesn't look that readable.

I could improve `count_chars()` by having it accept the boundaries and exit
early, avoiding some unneccessary work.

Overall, this one was pretty straightforward as well. I **did** get hung up for
a little while on the second part - I misread the instructions and was pretty
sure that my implementation was correct. It would have been, if the
instructions were slightly different! :)

```py
def count_chars(string: str, char: str) -> int:
    """
    Counts the number of times a character appears in a string.
    """
    found_char = 0
    for letter in string:
        if char == letter:
            found_char += 1

    return found_char


def is_valid_password(lower: int, upper: int, string: str, char: str) -> bool:
    """
    Determines whether a string contains a given character within the specified
    range.
    """
    # XOR
    return (string[lower-1] == char) != (string[upper-1] == char)
```

As always, see the full repo [here](https://github.com/mattcdrake/aoc19-python)

