---
title: "Why I Left My Job and What's Next"
date: 2020-10-11T18:50:07-04:00
draft: false
---

Hi, I’m Matt Drake. I’m a network engineer turned data analyst _turning_
software developer. A couple months ago, I left my public sector R&D job in
order to work on a CS degree full-time and begin a new career as a software
developer. Here, I'll explain my short-term goals and my plan to achieve them.

## Motivation

I started college after a 4-year detour in the US Army, where I was the
sergeant in charge of a computer networking squad. My first major was CS. I
made A’s in a handful of courses and enjoyed the material. However, I fell in
love with microeconomics and convinced myself that I would do a PhD in
Economics. So, I took as many math and stats classes as I could (that’s what
impresses Econ PhD admissions) and did a bunch of undergrad research. This
helped me learn something important about myself: I don’t like research and I
don’t want to be in academia. It’s great that I learned it, but with a year
left in college, it was a little late.

A BS in Economics isn’t a sure ticket to a job. It’s probably better than
English or Film, but definitely worse than any form of engineering, science, or
[Turf
Management](https://harvest.cals.ncsu.edu/agricultural-institute/students/?p=12902).
I applied to 7 master’s programs in Data Science and got into all of them
except the one I wanted to go to. It seemed dumb to waste thousands of dollars
and a couple years to do a degree I wasn’t excited about, so I got a job as a
data analyst at the Bureau of Economic Analysis. I love economics, they
estimate GDP, what could go wrong?

I worked there for around 2 years and all things considered, it was a positive
experience. I worked on a team responsible for the backend of a survey
processing system. BEA gets a lot of survey responses and the data always needs
cleaning. Even though I wasn’t a developer, I wrote a lot of SQL and Python
code and came to realize that I enjoy using software to solve real world
problems.

If it were financially viable, I would have finished a CS degree at this point.
Instead, I got a different job that required me to do a lot more programming. I
was mostly building internal tools and machine learning pipelines, and I
learned a ton. Ultimately, the environment wasn’t a good fit for me. Most of
the projects culminated in PowerPoint decks that got presented and promptly
forgotten about. I need to be in a role where I’m delivering results in order
to feel good about my workday. Therefore, I’m taking 9 months to finish a CS
bachelor’s degree before starting a new career as a software developer.

### Why not just work on changing careers in my free-time?

For a while, I thought this was the only possible approach. I built some
projects in React/NodeJS after work but it became clear that my pace would take
forever to get to the skill level where I’d be comfortable applying to
engineering roles at Real Companies. I was also fairly inconsistent because I
found my current role so emotionally draining. I work best when I’m all-in, so
I think that’s the best strategy for me to try.

### Why earn a degree?

I fully believe that it would be possible to get into a software developer role
without doing a CS degree. The fact that so many developers don’t have one is
clear proof of that. The reasons I chose to do one are:

- A CS curriculum can help me avoid blindspots that I might miss by
  self-teaching
- The combination of my prior CS credits and the
  [program](https://eecs.oregonstate.edu/academic/online-cs-postbacc) I’m doing
  makes it possible to finish the degree in 9 months
- This is a very low opportunity cost to avoid negative perceptions during job
  searching

The last point is unfortunate and like I said before, I 100% believe that a
degree is not required to be a software developer. But not everyone thinks that
and it seems to be a less common belief among HR people that scan resumes.
There’s an argument that that could actually work as a filter in my benefit -
companies where they filter out non-CS degrees are companies that I wouldn’t
like to work at anyway. That’s entirely posible, but with such a low
opportunity cost (**for me** - I’m not making general statements), it doesn’t
seem like a necessary risk to take.

### Where do you want to work?

I want to work with smart, driven people on software engineering challenges.
I’d prefer to work on a product-focused engineering team, but ops & internal
software are extremely important as well. The team matters a lot more to me
than the product.

That’s it, really. I want to be able to help the project succeed and learn from
awesome co-workers along the way. Big company or startup, I just want to work
with optimistic people that are great at (and care about) their job.

## Plan

The plan has a lot of parts. First, I’m going to finish my CS degree and excel
at it. In addition to coursework, I’m going to launch a few non-trival projects.
I think that this practical experience of
shipping real projects will complement academic work nicely. I have an
incredible opportunity, and I want to wring every drop out of it. Plus, some of
the stuff I build might be good!

I’ve seen a lot of people talk about “learning in public” - I think this is a
fantastic approach and I’m going to do it too. For me, there’s two parts -
streaming and blogging. I’m going to stream on
[Twitch](https://twitch.tv/drake6m) and my blogs will be right here. Between
the two approaches, I can improve my technical communication skills (verbal and
written) and have fun in the process.

About blogs, there’s more than enough blogspam on the internet. I’m not
interested in writing blogs as though I’m a professional explaining the best
way to do things. I want to write blogs in the style that [Julia
Evans](https://jvns.ca) has perfected - just learn something interesting and
then write about it. No clickbait, no edicts, just cool technology.

The last part of the plan is to grind algorithm questions. I dislike it as much
as anyone, but it seems like a reality of the industry and I’d rather be
prepared than not.

That’s it. Wish me luck!

[@drake6m](https://twitter.com/drake6m)
